Get started for free with the fastest CI on the planet
Harness CI
Harness CI is a modern Continuous Integration platform that empowers busy teams to automate their build, test, and release workflows using a powerful, cloud-native pipeline engine.

CI Fast

Developers are frustrated with the time it takes to ship code and often end up wasting their precious time waiting for the builds to complete.

XKCD

With Harness CI, you can build faster and be more productive. Harness CI's pricing is competitive to other leading CI providers, which gives you more cost savings with the speed benefit. Harness CI is built on Drone, and over the last 10 years we have been focusing on solving the developer's frustration with the time it took to ship code with existing CI tools. Harness CI's vision is to create a CI tool that is fast, simple, open, and secure.

Build pipelines 4 times faster than GitHub Actions
Harness CI is 4 times faster due to optimized defaults with hosted builds so you don't have to set up and manage infrastructure or optimize caching and other technologies to improve build times. Cache Intelligence dramatically reduces pipeline execution time by automatically caching well-known directories for Java, Node package managers, and more. Test Intelligence can improve build cycles by up to 90% with machine learning (ML) that runs only the necessary tests relevant to code changes. Once tests are identified, speed up test cycles even more by splitting and running tests concurrently.

In this demo, Harness goes head-to-head with GitHub Actions. You can follow these instructions to reproduce the results and see for yourself.


Get started in 5 easy steps
Developer productivity is a core pillar for Harness. We didn't want to build a CI tool that was fast and complex to use. You can get started quickly with any language in Harness CI, with out-of-the-box starter templates and code-first development. You can connect to any Source Code Management (SCM) system, build any apps for any language or platform, and host it anywhere.

CI Getting Started

Create and share open source plugins
Harness uses containers to drop pre‑configured steps into your pipeline. Choose from thousands of existing plugins, or create your own and run it on a container or the host virtual machine.

Create a pipeline for your favorite language
Build, test, and deploy applications in Node.js, Python, Java, Ruby, PHP, Go, Rust, .NET, and more. Use VMs or containers for Linux, Windows, and Mac operating systems.